CMD - defines the default instructuon that has to be executed when the cont. comes up.
This command is overridden if arguments are provided to docker run

ENTRYPOINT; Configures the container to run as an executable. The arguments passed to docker run are appended to the ENTRYPOINT command,
making the CMD instruction serve as default parameter

ARGS? - like variables

Volumes:

-tmpfs: stored in host RAM
-volumes: - named & anonymous - root dir/volumes/_data   - controllered by docker
-bindmounts: controlled by host machine
why bindmounts? - 

NAMED VOL: docke volume create 
anony: no name is mentioned - comes up with random name (why do we need them?)
  

  NETWORKING: https://dev.to/nobleman97/docker-networking-101-a-blueprint-for-seamless-container-connectivity-3i5b
IP: Unique routable address given to all the devices in a network that follows ip proto.
switch,gateway,nat-denat 

---
eth 0 is in every hstmachie

docker0 - acts as switch  refer nb

3 networks - bridge,host,none

in host network - cont- is connected directly to host nw.
--------------------------------------------------
docker compose

docker compose up
docker compose build etc. 
if you want to run in detached mode - -d

-------------


  KUBERNETES:


RBAC:
SUBJECT - user,SA,group (access can be given to any of these)

OBJECT - can be any of the k8s resources

VERBS - create,get , list , update

-> user was created - certifcate signed by CA - 
-> then create a  role (object + verb is mentioned)
-> then create a role binding - (subject is attached to role)
-> cluster role , cluster role , binding (?)

->context ? 


  
PROBES:
liveness - check if the pod is alive- if not , its restarts the pod
readiness prpbes wait - ?
startup probes- 

LIMITS:
soft limit:
hard limit: 


PV PVC: 
say the access type,storage class, then a pv which is associated - which should be more than the size of the pvc.

pv pvc- once bound  has one-one relationship

storage mounted to pod.

cant kill pod when pvc is bound.

DIFFERNET ACCESS TYPE:
RWO  - 
RWOP -
ROX 
RWX


RECLAIM POLICY:
Retain: PV is deleted, data and actual vol is kepted
Recycle : Data deleted,,act vol kept 
Delete: Data and actual volume will be deleted

EKS:

Dynamic provisioning - kind Storage class

other advantages of using managed k8s cluster-? 
Route 53-?

ETCD Encryptions: (not in syllabus)

Configmap and secrets - secrets are only encoded not encrypted.

kind: EncrytptionConfiguration
you wont apply this yaml,, instead you go t the api servers yaml and tell this kind is created. it will then apply


refer --  ***
why crashoopbackloff? 
image name wrong
wrong env,secrets eetc
probes failing
taints?


